Hello my friends and welcome to the practical activity of this new part.
Part for clustering where we're gonna build two clustering models.
K Means and hierarchical clustering.
And of course we're gonna start with k means which is actually the most popular model in clustering.
And indeed we will see together that it provides fantastic results.
So you just saw the intuition lectures with real and now we're going to put that theory into practice
by building this k means clustering model in both python and R.
All right so first of all let's make sure everyone here is on the same page.
This is the Google Drive folder of which you were provided the link in the previous tutorial you know
right before this tutorial in the article.
So make sure to connect that link.
And now we should all be on the same page and therefore we're going to go to this folder here.
Part for clustering and then will attack K Means clustering and we're going to start with Python of
course.
And this is your folder containing two fouls.
First the K Means clustering implementation in the IPO in the format which therefore you can open with
either Google collaboratively or Jupiter notebook and then you have more customers that CSB which is
the C as we found the dataset with which we will work in this section to build our K Means clustering
model.
All right.
So first step as usual I will explain what this dataset is about which will allow me to explain the
purpose of this mission.
You know the why we want to build the Caymans algorithm and what for.
And then we'll start of course our implementation from scratch.
Step by step and we'll take action with me to build the K Means Algorithm.
All right.
So what is this dataset about.
Well as you can see by the title of this dataset mall customers well it's actually a data set made by
a mall.
You know the strategy team let's say of a mall that collected some data about their customers.
So here it's important to see it this way.
Each row corresponds to a customer of the mall.
And for each of these customers of the mall well the data analyst of this team gathered the following
information.
First the customer I.D. then the jar.
Male female then the age the annual income.
And let's expand this.
Well I can't win here but that less variable is the spending score and it can take values between 1
and 100.
So all these features are pretty clear.
Let me explain what this one means the spending score is a metric made by the mall to measure you know
how much each customer spends.
And so they made this metric which takes values from 1 to 100.
You know that's the scale of the metric such that well the lower the score the less the customer spends
and the higher the score the more the customer spends.
You know in a certain period of time let's say in the past year.
Okay.
So for example this customer actually spends a lot in this mall you know because he has a score of 81.
However this customer spends very few in the mall because she has a score of six.
All right.
So that's just a metric measuring the spending of each customer.
And so now what is the purpose of this mission what did this strategic team or analytics team want to
do.
Well as you might guess since right now we're doing clustering.
This team wants to very simply understand its customers.
You know they want to identify some patterns within its customers within its base of customers.
And that's the key thing to understand here.
You know when doing clustering this time as opposed to you know previously with regression and classification
where we were actually knowing what to predict.
Well this time we actually have no idea what to predict.
But even though we don't know what specifically to predict we still know that we want to identify some
patterns and that's the why of this mission.
You know the purpose of this mission.
OK.
So it's good we understand the why.
And now let us understand how.
How are we going to identify such patterns.
Well we will do this with Caymans of course and more specifically what we will do is we will create
a dependent variable right.
Will create a dependent variable which will take a finite number of values.
You know let's say four or five values and actually each of the values will be a class of this dependent
variable.
We're going to create.
And that's exactly what clustering means.
You know technically in the details if you want to be broad on how to explain clustering you would say
that we are identifying some parents in a data.
But if you want to clearly explain how to identify these patterns in the data well you would say that
we are building a dependent variable.
You know we are creating it in such a way that each of the values of this future depend very well we
are creating are actually the classes of this dependent variable.
All right.
So this will become much more clear once you know we build our Caymans algorithm and we get indeed that
dependent variable we're creating.
But please remember this because you know right after we build our Caymans algorithm I will actually
remind this that indeed we are creating a dependent variable.
All right.
So let us do this.
I hope you're ready and excited.
So now we're going to close this and we're going to start our implementation.
So feel free to open this k means clustering file with either Google collaboratively or Jupiter notebook
whatever is your favorite.
Now I am opening it with Google collaboratively and it is now loading it laying out the notebook.
And there you go.
That's the notebook for came into clustering containing the whole key means implementation.
And now as usual this notebook is an read on the motor that all of you can access the original implementation.
But since this is an action based course where I want all of you to learn by doing you know by taking
action well we're going to re implement it from scratch and to do this.
We're going to create a copy by clicking save a copy in drive.
And as you can see this creates a copy on which you will be able to do some modifications and mostly
re implement this Caymans model.
All right.
So now I hope we're on the same page ready to re implement this and to do this.
As usual we are going to delete each of these code cells but not text sales so that we can keep that
well highlighted structure.
So let's remove all the code cells on the and in a second we'll have the clear structure of this came
into implementation which is in actually five parts.
Let's take it from here.
First we will import the libraries.
That's the classic first step of the data repressing phase.
Then we'll import data set of course inevitable.
Then we will use the elbow method to find the optimal number of clusters so that we don't have to build
a Caymans model several times.
Then knowing this optimal number of cluster as well we will train the Caymans model and dataset with
that optimal number of clusters.
And finally we will visualize the clusters.
All right.
So perfect.
That was the introductory tutorial where we explain instead of everything.
And now in the next tutorial we will start with the very first step which is the data repressing phase.
And as you can see I actually prepared our data depressing template because even for clustering Well
the data processing phase will be almost the same as you can see we are importing the libraries importing
the data set.
But then we won't have to of course split the data set into the training sets and test it because indeed
getting the training set and a test set implies having a dependent variable containing the real results.
And at this point we don't have a dependent variable.
We were just trying to identify one and to create one.
All right.
So no splitting the data sets into the training set and.
And therefore what I would like you to do now before we do it together in the next material is to implement
yourself as that data repricing phase with only these two first code cells you will get a solution and
then of course we will implement a solution together.
So I'll see you in the next material to start this implementation.
And until then enjoy machine learning.